# F32 Fire detecting system for unattended machinery spaces

(1976)

F32.1 An automatic fire detection system is to be fitted in the machinery spaces.

F32.2 The system is to be designed with self-monitoring properties. Power or system failures are to initiate an audible alarm distinguishable from the fire alarm.

F32.3 The fire detection indicating panel is to be located on the navigating bridge, fire control station, or other accessible place where a fire in the machinery space will not render it inoperative.

F32.4 The fire detection indicating panel is to indicate the place of the detected fire in accordance with the arranged fire zones by means of a visual signal. Audible signals clearly distinguishable in character from any other audible signals shall be audible throughout the navigating bridge and the accommodation area of the personnel responsible for the operation of the machinery space.

F32.5 Fire detectors are to be of types, and so located, that they will rapidly detect the onset of fire in conditions normally present in the machinery space. Consideration is to be given to avoiding false alarms. The type and location of detectors are to be approved by the Classification Society and a combination of detector types is recommended in order to enable the system to react to more than one type of fire symptom.

F32.6 Fire detector zones are to be arranged in a manner that will enable the operating staff to locate the seat of the fire. The arrangement and the number of loops and the location of detector heads is to be approved in each case. Air currents created by the machinery are not to render the detection system ineffective.

F32.7 When fire detectors are provided with the means to adjust their sensitivity, necessary arrangements are to be ensured to fix and identify the set point.

F32.8 When it is intended that a particular loop or detector is to be temporarily switched off, this state is to be clearly indicated. Reactivation of the loop or detector is to be performed automatically after a present time.

F32.9 The fire detection indicating panel is to be provided with facilities for functional testing.

F32.10 The fire detecting system shall be fed automatically from the emergency source of power by a separate feeder if the main source of power fails.

F32.11 Facilities are to be provided in the fire detecting system to release manually the fire alarm from the following places:

Passageways having entrances to engine and boiler rooms,
navigating bridge,
control station in engine room.

F32.12 The testing of the fire detecting system on board is to be carried out to the satisfaction of the individual Classification Society.

NOTE

Requirements on indication of the operation of each individual detecting head are left to the discretion of each Classification Society.

IACS Req. 1976
