## F45

### 5.2 Fire detection

5.2.1 A fixed fire detection and fire alarm system complying with the provisions of the Fire Safety Systems Code shall be installed in spaces containing an inert gas generator or an ozone generator.

5.2.2 A section of fire detectors which covers a control station, a service space or an accommodation space is not to include a BWMR containing equipment related to ozone based BWMS.

### 6 Ventilation

#### 6.1 Ventilation arrangement

6.1.1 The ventilation systems for BWMR containing BWMS of the following types shall be independent of the ventilation systems serving any other spaces:

- BWMS storing, introducing or generating chemical substances.
- De-oxygenation, including pasteurization and de-oxygenation (cat.3 and cat.8 as per Table 1)
- Electrolysis
- Ozone injection

6.1.2 The ventilation exhaust for BWMR containing a nitrogen generator shall be located in the lower part of the room in order to efficiently evacuate dangerous gases – as defined in UR M74 §2.3 - heavier than air.

6.1.3 The ventilation exhaust for BWMR containing electrolysis systems shall be located so as to be able to efficiently evacuate dangerous gases – as defined in UR M74 §2.3 - that could be generated during the electrolysis process. Due regard shall be paid to the expected quantity and density of such gases when designing the ventilation exhaust.

6.1.4 The following requirements apply to ventilation ducts serving BWMR for ozone-based BWMS:

- The part of the ducts located outside of the BWMR shall be made of steel having a thickness of at least 3 mm for ducts with a free cross-sectional area of less than 0.075 m2, at least 4 mm for ducts with a free cross-sectional area of between 0.075 m2 and 0.45 m2, and at least 5 mm for ducts with a free cross-sectional area of over 0.45 m2; and
- The ducts shall be suitably supported and stiffened
- The outside openings of the ducts shall be fitted with protective screens of not more than 13 mm square mesh.

6.1.5 The ventilation system for BWMR containing ozone-based BWMS or ventilation system for hydrogen de gas arrangement as required by UR M74 3.3.1.5 shall be interlocked with the BWMS such that:

- In case of loss of ventilation (primary and secondary), a visual and audible alarm shall be triggered both inside and outside the BWMR and at a place where a responsible member of the crew is on duty. If the ventilation is not restored after a pre-set time, the BWMS shall then be automatically shut down. Any need for cooldown necessary for safe shutdown is to be considered in the shutdown sequence.
- It shall not be possible to start the BWMS without the ventilation running

For ventilation systems serving BWMR and containing or conveying a dangerous gas, relevant requirements in UR M74 3.3 are to be satisfied.

#### 6.2 Ventilation rate

6.2.1 An adequate power ventilation system shall be provided in enclosed BWMR.

6.2.2 The ventilation capacity shall be at least 30 air changes per hour where explosive or toxic gases may be generated during operation of the BWMS. The IMO reports issued during the basic and final approval procedures of the BWMS that make use of active substances (G9 Guidelines) and ''safety hazard'' as listed in Ch.17 of IBC code are to be used as references for identifying those cases.

6.2.3 The ventilation capacity may be reduced as follows:

- Flocculation-type BWMS                                                  6 air changes per hour
- De-oxygenation, incl. pasteurization and de-oxygenation (cat.3 and cat.8 as per Table 1)   6 air changes per hour
- Full flow electrolysis                                                  6 air changes per hour
- Side-stream electrolysis                                                20 air changes per hour
- Ozone injection                                                         20 air changes per hour
- Chemical injection                                                      6 air changes per hour

Note: More stringent ventilation capacity requirements may arise from other regulations e.g. IBC Code requirements for spaces located in the cargo area.

### 7 Personal equipment

7.1.1 Suitable protection equipment shall be available onboard for the protection of the crew members who are engaged in the servicing, maintenance and repair of BWMS storing, introducing or generating chemicals, as recommended by the product manufacturers. The protection equipment shall consist of large aprons, special gloves with long sleeves, suitable footwear, coveralls of chemical-resistant materials, and tight fitting goggles or face shields or both. The protective clothing and equipment shall cover all skin so that no part of the body is unprotected. This protection equipment is to be provided separately without taking into account equipment required by other mandatory requirements.

7.1.2 Work clothes and protective equipment shall be kept in easily accessible places and in special lockers. Such equipment shall not be kept within accommodation spaces, with the exception of new, unused equipment and equipment which has not been used since undergoing a thorough cleaning process. Notwithstanding the above, storage rooms for such equipment within accommodation spaces if adequately segregated from living spaces such as cabins, passageways, dining rooms, bathrooms, etc.

7.1.3 When a BWMS storing, introducing or generating chemicals is installed on board, suitably marked decontamination showers and an eyewash shall be available in a convenient location in close proximately to the BWMS and the chemical store room(s).

7.1.4 An emergency escape breathing apparatus (EEBD) is to be provided in the BWMR. This emergency escape breathing apparatus may be one of the EEBDs provided in accordance with the requirements of SOLAS II-2/13.

An EEBD need not be required for BWMS of cat.1 as per Table 1.

7.1.5 A personal ozone detector, calibrated as per the manufacturer's specifications, shall be provided for each person engaged in the servicing, maintenance and repair of BWMS utilizing ozone.

7.1.6 A two-way portable radiotelephone apparatus dedicated for the BWMS service, maintenance and repair shall be provided, in addition to those required by SOLAS for fire-fighting purposes. This two-way radiotelephone apparatus is to be properly identified in order to avoid mix-up with the apparatus intended for fire-fighting operations. Where the BWMS may release explosive gases, this two-way radiotelephone apparatus shall be of a certified safe type suitable for use in zone 1 hazardous areas, as defined in IEC Publication 60079. Where the BWMS stores, utilizes or introduces chemicals, the apparatus shall undergo deep cleaning or de-contamination after use.

A two-way portable radiotelephone apparatus need not be required for BWMS of cat.1 as per Table 1.

End of Document

## F46 Low pressure CO<sub>2</sub> piping system

(Aug 2021)

**(FSS Code Ch.5.2.2)**

Where a low-pressure CO<sub>2</sub> system is fitted, the piping system is to be designed in such a way that the CO<sub>2</sub> pressure at the nozzles should not be less than 1 N/mm<sup>2</sup>.

Note:

1. This Unified Requirement is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies on ships constructed on or after 1 July 2022.

End of Document

## F4 Deleted

## F5 Pump room alarms

(1971)
(Rev. 1 1973)

Where audible alarms are fitted to warn of the release of fire extinguishing medium into pump rooms, they may be of the pneumatic type or electric type.

(a) *Pneumatically operated alarms*

In cases where the periodic testing of such alarms is required,CO<sub>2</sub> operated alarms should not be used owing to the possibility of the generation of static electricity in the CO<sub>2</sub> cloud. Air operated alarms may be used provided the air supply is clean and dry.

(b) *Electrically operated alarms*

When electrically operated alarms are used, the arrangements are to be such that the electric actuating mechanism is located outside the pump room except where the alarms are certified intrinsically safe.

It was further agreed that the use of CO<sub>2</sub> operated alarms should be discouraged.

## F6 Standardization of flash points

(1971)
(Rev 1 1996)

In context of these Unified Requirements, oil tankers shall be considered as vessels capable of carrying oil having a flash point not exceeding 60°C (closed cup test).

## F7 Portable instruments for measuring oxygen and flammable vapour concentrations

(1971)
(Rev.1 1989)
(Rev.2 May 1999)
(Rev.3 June 2020)
(Corr.1 Nov 2020)

Every oil tanker is to be provided with at least two portable gas detectors capable of measuring flammable vapour concentrations in air (%LEL) and at least two portable O<sub>2</sub> analysers. Alternatively, at least two gas detectors, each capable of measuring both oxygen and flammable vapour concentrations in air (%LEL), are to be provided.

In addition, for tankers fitted with inert gas systems, at least two portable gas detectors are to be capable of measuring concentrations of flammable vapours in inerted atmosphere (% gas by volume).

Note:

1. Rev.3 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies on ships contracted for construction on or after 1 July 2021.

End of Document

## F8 Pressurisation of cargo tanks

(1971)
(Rev.1 1989)

PV valves to oil tanks should not be set at pressures in excess of 0,21 bar unless the tank scantlings have been specially considered.

End of Document

## F9 Lighting and sighting ports in pump room/engine room bulkheads

(1971)

Deleted Dec 2013.

(According to Members' experience, the use of lighting and sighting ports is now obsolete. Ref: 13246_IGb)

End of Document
