# Z10.1 (cont'd)

## ANNEX IV

**Page 81 of 92**
**IACS Req. 1992/Rev.25 2023**

---

# Z10.1 (cont'd)

## ANNEX IVA
### SURVEY PROGRAMME

#### Basic information and particulars

| | |
|---|---|
| **Name of ship:** | |
| **IMO number:** | |
| **Flag State:** | |
| **Port of registry:** | |
| **Gross tonnage:** | |
| **Deadweight (metric tonnes):** | |
| **Length between perpendiculars (m):** | |
| **Shipbuilder:** | |
| **Hull number:** | |
| **Classification Society:** | |
| **Class ID:** | |
| **Date of build of the ship:** | |
| **Owner:** | |
| **Thickness measurement firm:** | |

### 1 Preamble

#### 1.1 Scope

1.1.1 The present survey programme covers the minimum extent of overall surveys, close-up surveys, thickness measurements and pressure testing within the cargo area, cargo tanks, ballast tanks, including fore and aft peak tanks, required by UR Z10.1.

1.1.2 The arrangements and safety aspects of the survey are to be acceptable to the attending surveyor(s).

#### 1.2 Documentation

All documents used in the development of the survey programme are to be available onboard during the survey as required by section 6.

### 2 Arrangement of tanks and spaces

This section of the survey programme is to provide information (either in the form of plans or text) on the arrangement of tanks and spaces that fall within the scope of the survey.

**Page 82 of 92**
**IACS Req. 1992/Rev.25 2023**

---

# Z10.1 (cont'd)

### 3 List of tanks and spaces with information on their use, extent of coatings and corrosion protection system

This section of the survey programme is to indicate any changes relating to (and is to update) the information on the use of the tanks of the ship, the extent of coatings and the corrosion protective system provided in the Survey Planning Questionnaire.

### 4 Conditions for survey

This section of the survey programme is to provide information on the conditions for survey, e.g. information regarding cargo hold and tank cleaning, gas freeing, ventilation, lighting, etc.

### 5 Provisions and method of access to structures

This section of the survey programme is to indicate any changes relating to (and is to update) the information on the provisions and methods of access to structures provided in the Survey Planning Questionnaire.

### 6 List of equipment for survey

This section of the survey programme is to identify and list the equipment that will be made available for carrying out the survey and the required thickness measurements.

### 7 Survey requirements

#### 7.1 Overall survey

This section of the survey programme is to identify and list the spaces that are to undergo an overall survey for the ship in accordance with 2.3.1.

#### 7.2 Close-up survey

This section of the survey programme is to identify and list the hull structures that are to undergo a close-up survey for the ship in accordance with 2.3.2.

### 8 Identification of tanks for tank testing

This section of the survey programme is to identify and list the tanks that are to undergo tank testing for the ship in accordance with 2.5.

### 9 Identification of areas and sections for thickness measurements

This section of the survey programme is to identify and list the areas and sections where thickness measurements are to be taken in accordance with 2.4.1.

**Page 83 of 92**
**IACS Req. 1992/Rev.25 2023**

---

# Z10.1 (cont'd)

### 10 Minimum thickness of hull structures

This section of the survey programme is to specify the minimum thickness for hull structures of the ship that are subject to UR Z10.1 (indicate either (a) or preferably (b), if such information is available):

(a) Determined from the attached wastage allowance table and the original thickness to the hull structure plans of the ship;

(b) Given in the following table(s):

| Area or location | Original asbuilt thickness (mm) | Minimum thickness (mm) | Substantial corrosion thickness (mm) |
| :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **Deck** | | | |
| Plating | | | |
| Longitudinals | | | |
| Longitudinal girders | | | |
| **Bottom** | | | |
| Plating | | | |
| Longitudinals | | | |
| Longitudinal girders | | | |
| **Ship side** | | | |
| Plating | | | |
| Longitudinals | | | |
| Longitudinal girders | | | |
| **Longitudinal bulkhead** | | | |
| Plating | | | |
| Longitudinals | | | |
| Longitudinal girders | | | |
| **Inner bottom** | | | |
| Plating | | | |
| Longitudinals | | | |
| Longitudinal girders | | | |
| **Transverse bulkheads** | | | |
| Plating | | | |
| Stiffeners | | | |
| **Transverse web frames, floors and stringers** | | | |
| Plating | | | |
| Flanges | | | |
| Stiffeners | | | |
| Cross ties | | | |
| Flanges | | | |
| Webs | | | |

**Note:** The wastage allowance tables are to be attached to the survey programme.

**Page 84 of 92**
**IACS Req. 1992/Rev.25 2023**

---

# Z10.1 (cont'd)

### 11 Thickness measurement firm

This section of the survey programme is to identify changes, if any, relating to the information on the thickness measurement firm provided in the Survey Planning Questionnaire.

### 12 Damage experience related to the ship

This section of the survey programme is to, using the tables provided below, provide details of the hull damages for at least the last three years in way of the cargo and ballast tanks and void spaces within the cargo area. These damages are subject to survey.

#### Hull damages sorted by location for the ship

| Tank or space number or area | Possible cause, if known | Description of the damages | Location | Repair | Date of repair |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | | | | | |

#### Hull damages for sister or similar ships (if available) in the case of design related damage

| Tank or space number or area | Possible cause, if known | Description of the damages | Location | Repair | Date of repair |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | | | | | |

**Page 85 of 92**
**IACS Req. 1992/Rev.25 2023**

---

# Z10.1 (cont'd)

### 13 Areas identified with substantial corrosion from previous surveys

This section of the survey programme is to identify and list the areas of substantial corrosion from previous surveys.

### 14 Critical structural areas and suspect areas

This section of the survey programme is to identify and list the critical structural areas and the suspect areas, if such information is available.

### 15 Other relevant comments and information

This section of the survey programme is to provide any other comments and information relevant to the survey.

**Page 86 of 92**
**IACS Req. 1992/Rev.25 2023**

---

# Z10.1 (cont'd)

### Appendices

#### Appendix 1 - List of plans
Paragraph 5.1.3.2 requires that main structural plans of cargo and ballast tanks (scantling drawings), including information regarding use of high tensile steel (HTS), to be available. This appendix of the survey programme is to identify and list the main structural plans which form part of the survey programme.

#### Appendix 2 - Survey Planning Questionnaire
The Survey Planning Questionnaire (annex IVB), which has been submitted by the owner, is to be appended to the survey programme.

#### Appendix 3 - Other documentation
This part of the survey programme is to identify and list any other documentation that forms part of the Plan.

Prepared by the owner in co-operation with the Classification Society for compliance with 5.1.3.

Date:…………………………………. (name and signature of authorized owner's representative)

Date:…………………………………. (name and signature of authorized representative of the Classification Society)

**Page 87 of 92**
**IACS Req. 1992/Rev.25 2023**

---

# Z10.1 (cont'd)

## ANNEX IVB
### SURVEY PLANNING QUESTIONNAIRE

The following information will enable the owner in co-operation with the Classification Society to develop a survey programme complying with the requirements of UR Z10.1. It is essential that the owner provides, when completing the present questionnaire, up-to-date information. The present questionnaire, when completed, is to provide all information and material required by UR Z10.1.

#### Particulars
- **Ship's name:**
- **IMO number:**
- **Flag State:**
- **Port of registry:**
- **Owner:**
- **Classification Society:**
- **Class ID:**
- **Gross tonnage:**
- **Deadweight (metric tonnes):**
- **Date of build:**

#### Information on access provision for close-up surveys and thickness measurement:

The owner is to indicate, in the table below, the means of access to the structures subject to close-up survey and thickness measurement. A close-up survey is an examination where the details of structural components are within the close visual inspection range of the attending surveyor, i.e. normally within reach of hand.

| Tank No. | Structure | C(Cargo)/ B(Ballast) | Temporary staging | Rafts | Ladders | Direct access | Other means (please specify) |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| **F.P.** | Fore peak | | | | | | |
| **A.P.** | Aft peak | | | | | | |
| **Wing Tanks** | Under deck | | | | | | |
| | Side shell | | | | | | |
| | Bottom transverse | | | | | | |
| | Longitudinal | | | | | | |
| | Transverse | | | | | | |
| **Centre Tanks** | Under deck | | | | | | |
| | Bottom transverse | | | | | | |
| | Transverse | | | | | | |

**Page 88 of 92**
**IACS Req. 1992/Rev.25 2023**

---

# Z10.1 (cont'd)

| History of cargo with $H_2S$ content or heated cargo for the last 3 years together with indication as to whether cargo was heated and, where available, Marine Safety Data Sheets (MSDS)* |
| :--- |
| |

\* Refer to resolution MSC. 150(77) on Recommendation for material safety data sheets for MARPOL Annex I cargoes and marine fuel oils.

**Page 89 of 92**
**IACS Req. 1992/Rev.25 2023**

---

# Z10.1 (cont'd)

### Owner's inspections

Using a format similar to that of the table below (which is given as an example), the owner is to provide details of the results of their inspections for the last 3 years on all cargo and ballast tanks and void spaces within the cargo area, including peak tanks.

| Tank No. | Corrosion protection (1) | Coating extent (2) | Coating condition (3) | Structural deterioration (4) | Tank damage history (5) |
|---|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| **Cargo centre tanks** | | | | | |
| **Cargo wing tanks** | | | | | |
| **Slop** | | | | | |

**Page 90 of 92**
**IACS Req. 1992/Rev.25 2023**

---

# Z10.1 (cont'd)

| Tank No. | Corrosion protection (1) | Coating extent (2) | Coating condition (3) | Structural deterioration (4) | Tank damage history (5) |
|---|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| **Ballast tanks** | | | | | |
| **Aft peak** | | | | | |
| **Fore peak** | | | | | |
| **Miscellaneous spaces** | | | | | |

**Note: Indicate tanks which are used for oil/ballast.**

1) **HC**=hard coating; **SC**=soft coating; **SH**=semi-hard coating; **NP**=no protection.
2) **U**=upper part; **M**=middle part; **L**=lower part; **C**=complete
3) **G**=good; **F**=fair; **P**=poor; **RC**=recoated (during the last 3 years)
4) **N**=no findings recorded; **Y**=findings recorded, description of findings is to be attached to the questionnaire
5) **DR**=damage & repair; **L**=leakages; **CV**=conversion (description is to be attached to this questionnaire)

**Name of owner's representative:**

**Signature:**

**Date:**

**Page 91 of 92**
**IACS Req. 1992/Rev.25 2023**

---

# Z10.1 (cont'd)

### Reports of Port State Control inspections

List the reports of Port State Control inspections containing hull structural related deficiencies and relevant information on rectification of the deficiencies:

| |
|---|
| |

### Safety Management System

| |
|---|
| |

List non-conformities related to hull maintenance, including the associated corrective actions:

| |
|---|
| |

**Name and address of the approved thickness measurement firm:**

**Annex IV end**
**Document end**

**Page 92 of 92**
**IACS Req. 1992/Rev.25 2023**
