# Z10.5 Annex III

**Page 116 of 127**
**IACS Req. 2003/Rev.20 2023**

## Z10.5 (cont) ANNEX III

---

# Z10.5 Annex IIIA

**Page 117 of 127**
**IACS Req. 2003/Rev.20 2023**

## Z10.5 (cont) ANNEX IIIA
### SURVEY PROGRAMME

#### Basic information and particulars

| | |
| :--- | :--- |
| Name of ship: | |
| IMO number: | |
| Flag State: | |
| Port of registry: | |
| Gross tonnage: | |
| Deadweight (metric tonnes): | |
| Length between perpendiculars (m): | |
| Shipbuilder: | |
| Hull number: | |
| Classification Society: | |
| Class ID: | |
| Date of build of the ship: | |
| Owner: | |
| Thickness measurement firm: | |

---

**Page 118 of 127**
**IACS Req. 2003/Rev.20 2023**

### 1 Preamble

#### 1.1 Scope

1.1.1 The present survey programme covers the minimum extent of overall surveys, close-up surveys, thickness measurements and pressure testing within the cargo length area, cargo holds, ballast tanks, including fore and aft peak tanks, required by UR Z10.5.

1.1.2 The arrangements and safety aspects of the survey are to be acceptable to the attending surveyor(s).

#### 1.2 Documentation

All documents used in the development of the survey programme are to be available onboard during the survey as required by section 6.

### 2 Arrangement of cargo holds, tanks and spaces

This section of the survey programme is to provide information (either in the form of plans or text) on the arrangement of cargo holds, tanks and spaces that fall within the scope of the survey.

### 3 List of cargo holds, tanks and spaces with information on their use, extent of coatings and corrosion prevention system

This section of the survey programme is to indicate any changes relating to (and is to update) the information on the use of the holds and tanks of the ship, the extent of coatings and the corrosion prevention system provided in the Survey Planning Questionnaire.

### 4 Conditions for survey

This section of the survey programme is to provide information on the conditions for survey, e.g. information regarding cargo hold and tank cleaning, gas freeing, ventilation, lighting, etc.

### 5 Provisions and method of access to structures

This section of the survey programme is to indicate any changes relating to (and is to update) the information on the provisions and methods of access to structures provided in the Survey Planning Questionnaire.

### 6 List of equipment for survey

This section of the survey programme is to identify and list the equipment that will be made available for carrying out the survey and the required thickness measurements.

### 7 Survey requirements

#### 7.1 Overall survey

This section of the survey programme is to identify and list the spaces that should undergo an overall survey for this ship in accordance with 2.3.1.

---

**Page 119 of 127**
**IACS Req. 2003/Rev.20 2023**

#### 7.2 Close-up survey

This section of the survey programme is to identify and list the hull structures that are to undergo a close-up survey for this ship in accordance with 2.3.2.

### 8 Identification of tanks for tank testing

This section of the survey programme is to identify and list the cargo holds and tanks that are to undergo tank testing for this ship in accordance with 2.5.

### 9 Identification of areas and sections for thickness measurements

This section of the survey programme is to identify and list the areas and sections where thickness measurements are to be taken in accordance with 2.4.1.

### 10 Minimum thickness of hull structures

This section of the survey programme is to specify the minimum thickness for hull structures of this ship that are subject to UR Z10.5 (indicate either (a) or preferably (b), if such information is available):

(a) Determined from the attached wastage allowance table and the original thickness to the hull structure plans of the ship;

(b) Given in the following table(s):

| Area or location | Original as-built thickness (mm) | Minimum thickness (mm) | Substantial corrosion thickness (mm) |
| :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| **Deck** | | | |
| Plating | | | |
| Longitudinals | | | |
| Longitudinal girders | | | |
| Cross deck plating | | | |
| Cross deck stiffeners | | | |
| **Bottom** | | | |
| Plating | | | |
| Longitudinals | | | |
| Longitudinal girders | | | |
| **Inner bottom** | | | |
| Plating | | | |
| Longitudinals | | | |
| Longitudinal girders | | | |
| Floors | | | |
| **Ship side in way of topside tanks** | | | |
| Plating | | | |
| Longitudinals | | | |
| **Ship side in way of hopper side tanks** | | | |
| Plating | | | |
| Longitudinals | | | |
| **Ship side in way of double hull tanks** | | | |
| Plating | | | |
| Longitudinals or ordinary transverse frames | | | |

---

**Page 120 of 127**
**IACS Req. 2003/Rev.20 2023**

| Area or location (continued) | Original as-built thickness (mm) | Minimum thickness (mm) | Substantial corrosion thickness (mm) |
| :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| Longitudinal stringers | | | |
| **Longitudinal bulkhead (inner side)** | | | |
| Plating | | | |
| Longitudinals or ordinary transverse frames | | | |
| Longitudinal girders (if applicable) | | | |
| **Transverse bulkheads** | | | |
| Plating | | | |
| Stiffeners (if applicable) | | | |
| Upper stool plating | | | |
| Upper stool stiffeners | | | |
| Lower stool plating | | | |
| Lower stool stiffeners | | | |
| **Transverse web frames in topside tanks** | | | |
| Plating | | | |
| Flanges | | | |
| Stiffeners | | | |
| **Transverse web frames in double hull tanks** | | | |
| Plating | | | |
| Flanges | | | |
| Stiffeners | | | |
| **Transverse web frames in hopper tanks** | | | |
| Plating | | | |
| Flanges | | | |
| Stiffeners | | | |
| **Hatch Covers** | | | |
| Plating | | | |
| Stiffeners | | | |
| **Hatch Coamings** | | | |
| Plating | | | |
| Stiffeners | | | |

Note: The wastage allowance tables are to be attached to the survey programme.

For vessels built under IACS Common Structural Rules, the renewal thickness of the hull structure elements is indicated in the appropriate drawings.

### 11 Thickness measurement firm

This section of the survey programme is to identify changes, if any, relating to the information on the thickness measurement firm provided in the Survey Planning Questionnaire.

### 12 Damage experience related to the ship

This section of the survey programme is to, using the tables provided below, provide details of the hull damages for at least the last three years in way of the cargo holds, ballast tanks and void spaces within the cargo length area. These damages are subject to survey.

---

**Page 121 of 127**
**IACS Req. 2003/Rev.20 2023**

#### Hull damages sorted by location for this ship

| Cargo hold, tank or space number or area | Possible cause, if known | Description of the damages | Location | Repair | Date of repair |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| | | | | | |

#### Hull damages for sister or similar ships (if available) in the case of design related damage

| Cargo hold, tank or space number or area | Possible cause, if known | Description of the damages | Location | Repair | Date of repair |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| | | | | | |

### 13 Areas identified with substantial corrosion from previous surveys

This section of the survey programme is to identify and list the areas of substantial corrosion from previous surveys.

### 14 Critical structural areas and suspect areas

This section of the survey programme is to identify and list the critical structural areas and the suspect areas, when such information is available.

### 15 Other relevant comments and information

This section of the survey programme is to provide any other comments and information relevant to the survey.

---

**Page 122 of 127**
**IACS Req. 2003/Rev.20 2023**

### Appendices

#### Appendix 1 - List of plans

Paragraph 5.1.3 requires that main structural plans of cargo holds and ballast tanks (scantling drawings), including information regarding use of high tensile steel (HTS) are to be available. This Appendix of the survey programme is to identify and list the main structural plans which form part of the survey programme.

#### Appendix 2 - Survey Planning Questionnaire

The Survey Planning Questionnaire (annex IIIB), which has been submitted by the owner, is to be appended to the survey programme.

#### Appendix 3 - Other documentation

This part of the survey programme is to identify and list any other documentation that forms part of the plan.

Prepared by the owner in co-operation with the Classification Society for compliance with 5.1.3:

Date: ........................................ (name and signature of authorized owner's representative)

Date: ........................................ (name and signature of authorized representative of the Classification Society)

---

# Z10.5 Annex IIIB

**Page 123 of 127**
**IACS Req. 2003/Rev.20 2023**

## Z10.5 (cont) ANNEX IIIB
### SURVEY PLANNING QUESTIONNAIRE

1 The following information will enable the owner in co-operation with the Classification Society to develop a Survey Programme complying with the requirements of UR Z10.5. It is essential that the owner provides, when completing the present questionnaire, up-to-date information. The present questionnaire, when completed, shall provide all information and material required by UR Z10.5.

#### Particulars

- Ship's name:
- IMO number:
- Flag State:
- Port of registry:
- Owner:
- Classification Society:
- Class ID:
- Gross tonnage:
- Deadweight (metric tonnes):
- Date of build:

#### Information on access provision for close-up surveys and thickness measurement

2 The owner is to indicate, in the table below, the means of access to the structures subject to close-up survey and thickness measurement. A close-up survey is an examination where the details of structural components are within the close visual inspection range of the attending surveyor, i.e. normally within reach of hand.

---

**Page 124 of 127**
**IACS Req. 2003/Rev.20 2023**

| Hold/ Tank No. | Structure | Permanent Means of Access | Temporary staging | Rafts | Ladders | Direct access | Other means (please specify) |
| :--- | :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| F.P. | Fore Peak | | | | | | |
| A.P. | Aft Peak | | | | | | |
| CARGO HOLDS | Hatch side coamings | | | | | | |
| | Topside sloping plate | | | | | | |
| | Upper stool plating | | | | | | |
| | Cross deck | | | | | | |
| | Double side tank plating | | | | | | |
| | Transverse bulkhead | | | | | | |
| | Hopper tank plating | | | | | | |
| | Lower stool plating | | | | | | |
| | Tank top | | | | | | |
| TOPSIDE TANKS | Underdeck structure | | | | | | |
| | Side shell & structure | | | | | | |
| | Sloping plate & structure | | | | | | |
| | Webs & bulkheads | | | | | | |
| HOPPER TANKS | Hopper sloping plate & structure | | | | | | |
| | Side shell & structure | | | | | | |
| | Bottom structure | | | | | | |
| | Webs & bulkheads | | | | | | |
| DOUBLE SIDE SKIN TANKS | Side shell & structure | | | | | | |
| | Inner skin & structure | | | | | | |
| | Webs & bulkheads | | | | | | |
| | Double bottom structure | | | | | | |
| | Upper stool internal structure | | | | | | |
| | Lower stool internal structure | | | | | | |
| WING TANKS OF ORE CARRIERS | Underdeck & structure | | | | | | |
| | Side shell & structure | | | | | | |
| | Side shell vertical web & structure | | | | | | |
| | Longitudinal bulkhead & structure | | | | | | |
| | Longitudinal bulkhead web & structure | | | | | | |
| | Bottom plating & structure | | | | | | |
| | Cross ties/stringers | | | | | | |

---

**Page 125 of 127**
**IACS Req. 2003/Rev.20 2023**

#### History of bulk cargoes of a corrosive nature (e.g. high sulphur content)

| |
| :--- |
| |

#### Owner's inspections

3 Using a format similar to that of the table below (which is given as an example), the owner is to provide details of the results of their inspections, for the last 3 years - in accordance with UR Z10.5 - on all CARGO holds and BALLAST tanks and VOID spaces within the cargo area.

| Tank/Hold No. | Corrosion protection (1) | Coating extent (2) | Coating condition (3) | Structural deterioration (4) | Hold and tank history (5) |
| :--- | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| Cargo holds | | | | | |
| Topside tanks | | | | | |
| Hopper tanks | | | | | |
| Double side skin tanks | | | | | |
| Double bottom tanks | | | | | |
| Upper stools | | | | | |
| Lower stools | | | | | |
| Wing tanks (ore carriers) | | | | | |
| Fore peak | | | | | |
| Aft peak | | | | | |
| Miscellaneous other spaces: | | | | | |

Note: Indicate tanks which are used for oil/ballast

1) HC=hard coating; SC=soft coating; SH=semi-hard coating; NP=no protection
2) U=upper part; M=middle part; L=lower part; C=complete

---

**Page 126 of 127**
**IACS Req. 2003/Rev.20 2023**

3) G=good; F=fair; P=poor; RC=recoated (during the last 3 years)
4) N=no findings recorded; Y=findings recorded, description of findings is to be attached to this questionnaire
5) DR=Damage & Repair; L=Leakages; CV=Conversion (Description to be attached to this questionnaire)

Name of owner's representative:

Signature:

Date:

---

**Page 127 of 127**
**IACS Req. 2003/Rev.20 2023**

### Reports of Port State Control inspections

List the reports of Port State Control inspections containing hull structural related deficiencies, relevant information on rectification of the deficiencies:

| |
| :--- |
| |

#### Safety Management System

List non-conformities related to hull maintenance, including the associated corrective actions:

| |
| :--- |
| |

**Name and address of the approved thickness measurement firm:**

**Annex III end**
**Document end**
