# SC113 Emergency Towing Arrangements on Tankers - Prototype Test (1996)

(Resolution MSC . 35 (63), 2.10)

(This UI is to be applied by IACS Member Societies from 1 January 1996.)

## Text:

"Designs of emergency towing arrangements in accordance with these Guidelines should be prototype tested to the satisfaction of the Administration."

## Interpretation:

Towing arrangements may be (1) a packaged self contained unit, or (2) a unit comprised of individually tested components assembled onboard the vessel.
Both arrangements should meet the specified strength requirements and undergo a deployment test onboard the vessel as required by MSC.35 (63).
Fixed gear such as strong points, fairleads, foundations and associated vessel supporting structure are to be demonstrated as adequate for the loads imposed by means of a submitted engineering analysis or calculations. If the structural configuration is of a particularly complex or novel nature, such that its load bearing adequacy cannot be satisfactorily determined by engineering analysis, suitable proof test will be required.
Articles of loose gear such as chains, towing pennants and associated end fittings, and shackles or other connecting links should be tested to the requirements of the Classification Society concerned.
Where a manufacturer requests a certificate of type approval for a complete self contained arrangement, one assembled unit is additionally to undergo a test to 2 x SWL.

Note: "Survey Guidelines - Emergency Towing Arrangements" is located in Recommendation No. 40 (1995).

IACS Int. 1996